 PART THE FIRST

WHICH TREATS OF THE MIRROR AND ITS FRAGMENTS


Listen! We are beginning our story! When we arrive at the end of it we
shall, it is to be hoped, know more than we do now. There was once a
magician! a wicked magician!! a most wicked magician!!! Great was his
delight at having constructed a mirror possessing this peculiarity,
viz:--that everything good and beautiful, when reflected in it, shrank
up almost to nothing, whilst those things that were ugly and useless
were magnified, and made to appear ten times worse than before. The
loveliest landscapes reflected in this mirror looked like boiled
spinach; and the handsomest persons appeared odious, or as if standing
upon their heads, their features being so distorted that their friends
could never have recognised them. Moreover, if one of them had a
freckle, he might be sure that it would seem to spread over the nose and
mouth; and if a good or pious thought glanced across his mind, a wrinkle
was seen in the mirror. All this the magician thought highly
entertaining, and he chuckled with delight at his own clever invention.
Those who frequented the school of magic where he taught spread abroad
the fame of this wonderful mirror, and declared that by its means the
world and its inhabitants might be seen now for the first time as they
really were. They carried the mirror from place to place, till at last
there was no country nor person that had not been misrepresented in it.
Its admirers now must needs fly up to the sky with it, to see if they
could carry on their sport even there. But the higher they flew the more
wrinkled did the mirror become; they could scarcely hold it together.
They flew on and on, higher and higher, till at last the mirror trembled
so fearfully that it escaped